What is a hash function it's something that's used all across computer science a hash function is simply
a function that generates a value of fixed length for each input that gets.
All right what does that mean.
Well I have here a M.D five hash generated and five is the type of hash function and there's many many
types.
You might have heard of Schwann Shaw 2:56 and many others using this hash function.
Let's see what happens if I do.
Hello.
You see that right away and the five hashes this string and turns it into this jibberish.
That's what a hash function does.
We give it an input and the function generates some random pattern.
Now there are some key aspects of hash functions.
First is that it's one way in the sense that if I give somebody this they have no idea what the input
was.
And it's practically impossible for me to have any clue as to what the input is.
The second is that no matter how many times I put Hello in there it's going to be the same.
But I soon as I change one thing is going to completely change the output.
If I go back to hello and wash me just change to capital H even a capital letter.
So it starts with 5 d for if I do capital H it's completely different again.
And looking at this we can at least say that I don't know what this is useful for.
But the one thing that I know is that no matter what if I give it the same input it's going to give
me the same result but I have no idea how to convert this back into hello.
This is what we call in-depth content or in Dempo and there's different pronunciations.
I'm not really sure which one is which but it is a fancy way of saying that a function given an input
always outputs the same output.
Now the one benefit and why we would want to use this and a data structure is that we get really fast
data access because all we have to do to find grapes or Baskett dot grapes is to pass grapes into something
like an empty five hash it generates this number for me and I immediately know where it is in my memory
on our computer.
But this doesn't look like an address does it.
Technically a hash function that we use for hash tables is going to take.
Grapes generate some sort of jibberish and then converted to an index space or an address space that
it has based on this number.
You see unlike arrays where we just had ordered indexes with hash tables all we need to do is give it
a key and we know exactly where that item is in our memory.
But you might be wondering this black box hash function doesn't just slow things down because every
time we want to add a property and a value grapes and 10000 to a hash table we have to run it through
the hash function so we can decide where to put it in memory.
And if you've noticed that good job that is a big factor you don't want this to take a very long time
because well every time you add a property to memory or retrieve a property to memory because again
we both times were sending the key grapes into the hash function to find where to get it from.
We need this to be really really fast and underneath the hood.
Remember because hash tables exist in all languages they're implemented with an optimum hashing function.
That's really really fast as a side note hash functions like Shah 2:56.
Take a really long time to generate a hash and it is an overly complex hashing function that is used
a lot and places like cryptography where you want this to take longer but that is outside the scope
of discourse if you're interested.
I do recommend you check out the differences between these two to review.
We have a key that is grapes.
We send it through a hash function that is going to hash something really really fast and then map whatever
the hash came out to be into a memory address where we want to store our data our grapes 10000.
And when it comes to hashing functions you typically leave this to whatever framework or language you're
using.
And we usually assume a time complexity or Big-O notation of 0 1 because this happens really fast.
All right.
Now that we understand what this black box does let's talk a little bit more about hash tables why they're
useful and why in some cases are better than a race.